>> And joining me today is going to be Alex Lindsay of
Pixel Corpss whose going to talk about all things podcasting,
so without further ado, I'd like to invite Alex on stage.
( Applause )
>> Thank, thank you very much.
This is, this is a really big stage.
( Laughter )
And a really, really big screen.
I, I was working on this thing and I, and I
didn't realize how big the screen was going to be,
so hopefully, hopefully the graphics work out well.
So, so let me give you a little bit of background.
The Pixel Corpss, we make a lot of podcasts.
I think we make a total of about 15 podcasts,
both internally and then also for exterior clients.
A sampling of some of the stuff that we do internally.
We do one called This Week in Media.
And we're actually going to have some of the guy from
This Week in Media up later at the audio podcast
on every week, whatever's going on in the media area.
We have the VFX Show, which is I used to work
at Lucas Film and Industrial Light and Magic.
So me and a bunch of other guys talk about
visual effects and, and that type of thing.
We've also got MacBreak, which some of you might,
how many people have actually seen MacBreak,
just so I get a sense of, okay, so you know what that is.
And, and then we also have Inside the Black
Box which is more of how to do visual effects.
Other ones that you probably haven't seen
yet are, are some of our client podcasts.
We work, there's a, there's a lot of folks that are working
in, that are you know raise money to build a network.
And they need the show is actually produced
for them, so they hire us to do that.
And so some of those are one called Local
Wisdom, which shows you where the locals go.
There's also Cocktails on the Fly, it's great to
have a show that shows you how to make mixed drinks.
Very rough to have the bartender showing you in the office.
The, we also have Food Science which just shows you the,
kind of the geeky side of, of food
and why food does what it does.
And one called I am Blackness, which is all about Africans
and Africans Americans showing kind of
a different side of, of that culture.
So this is handful of them and, and so because we've done
a lot of this stuff, we've really started to learn a lot
about the, you know the podcasting realm.
We started doing podcasts before there were podcasts.
We just called them weekly web content.
And that, we started back in 2001 doing
stuff for my other company called DB Garage.
So let's see, the first thing, and
by the way, this is the end of WWDC
and you're going to find this one's a little lighter
than most of the ones I've been sitting through.
So hopefully this will give you guys
a little bit of time to breathe.
We're mostly going to talk a lot about conceptual things.
So what we want to do is talk a little bit
about how to think about what's coming.
If you're thinking about building a podcast.
How many people here actually do a podcast?
Okay, so a lot of you do podcasts.
How many people are thinking about doing a podcast?
Okay, well, I guess that is pretty much everybody right?
You, you wouldn't be here if that wasn't the case.
So the first thing is to realize
that we're not CBS, we're not NBC,
we're not you know all these, you
know we're not a big network.
We're not trying to do Lost.
We're not trying to do 20/20, we're
not trying to 60 Minutes.
We need to find a niche that we can serve well
And that's one of the key things is
to think about what we can serve.
When you think about CBS, they need to have five to seven
million viewers minimum or they're going to cancel the show.
That's five to seven million people have to watch it.
When we think about niche markets, what you
want to be thinking about is 20000 to 200000.
You know that is a much, much smaller area, a much
more focused view on what's actually going on.
Now that may not seem like that many people.
You're like, well how can I build a business
if it's so small and CBS is so large?
Well when you walk into, into Borders Bookstore and you look
at a magazine rack, what you're seeing is a niche of most
of those magazine are somewhere
between 20000 and 200000 readers.
And, and when I, when I look at that, I actually
walk in and I see all these niche markets that need
to be served with video, and it gives me a headache.
So, so anyway.
That's, those are the kind of niche markets.
Those are niche markets.
That's, that's the precursor to what we're doing.
The next thing is that you, a lot of
the stuff that people are really looking
for is nonfictional and I'll talk about why in a second.
And then finally if I can get my, my
little controller to do the next one.
Is a long shelf life.
If you're going to make these things, now, we I
just said that after we do This Week in Media.
But, but you want a larger, a long
shelf life for a lot of the stuff.
The thing to remember is the people aren't tuning
in this week to look at it most of the time.
So a lot of our other shows, we think about how do we
have it be good for the next six month or the next year
of the next two years because people
will actually download them.
We had I think probably, I was looking at one of our
shows this last week that we released 18 months ago
and it had 1500 or 2000 downloads last week.
You know to give you kind of a sense of, you know.
And it, it's long over.
There's no, there's no good reason
to download that podcast.
So now, the, the thing that we want to look at when we look
at where we want to, where we're going with, with podcasting
and where we're going with this kind of content, is what
I would consider a new market versus a mature market.
The new market is, is video.
Remember these are video cassettes,
just in case you're wondering.
Yeah, these were, these were this
thing that they put video on
and they went extinct a couple of
years before the DVD went extinct.
So.
( Laughter )
So, and so anyway.
These, this is 90 percent fiction.
So most of what's happened over the last 100 years,
and 100 years in the land of content is very old.
I mean we started 10000 years ago scrawling and
scrolling in stone, and that was, that was content.
Wasn't very interactive, but it had a long shelf life.
So, so the, the thing is that you have this new market
that for some reason got into this, because of Hollywood,
because of that's where the money
was, was 90 percent fiction.
This is 90 percent nonfiction.
When you walk into a bookstore, what
you see is 90 percent of the content is
about things that people are passionate about.
It's about what they're interested in.
It's about business or cars or philosophy
or whatever it is, but it's not,
the fiction section is one little section
inside of a very, very large bookstore.
The difference between these two and, and this is what we're
looking at is that the, the tension as I would, as I would,
from a physics point of view, between 90 percent on end and
90 percent the other, is what I call a market opportunity.
So this is where there's going to be an enormous amount of
content that needs to be produced for nonfictional content.
Now what, what I mean by that, that's the how tos, that's
the historical, that's the documentary style pieces.
These are all things that people are going to be interested in
I believe that we're going to get to a point where
we assume that we can learn things through video.
You know we're going to be a little perturbed if we want to learn
how to do calculus or we want to learn how to you know a lot
of other things and we can't find a video on it.
And, and it's really, really important because we
can actually assimilate the information much quicker
and much younger when we get it in video format.
I, my daughter when she was 10 I was asking her what she
was learning in school and she was, and she said, well,
I been really learning a lot about string theory.
You know she's, she's 10 years old, you know.
And I said, so, so what is string theory?
And she went into describing it.
There's this, you know there's quantum physics and then
there's the big bang and, and they don't really get along,
but there's this theory that if you keep on going into
the molecules and you go in, you keep on going in,
you end up with little strings of energy.
And this ties together the big bang
and the, and the, and she, I mean,
she described it better than most college students.
You know and I asked her you know how she learned that.
And she was like, Nova.
You know and, and there was this Nova thing
on, on string theory that tied it all together.
Now she's a 10 year old that understands
something that most graduate students had a,
would have a hard time describing
because she got it visually.
She didn't have to have her ability to accumulate the
ability to read and all the, all the historical stuff
to be able to actually absorb that information.
Because of that, there's going to be an enormous
pressure, especially when we look at elearning
for lots and lots and lots of video content.
So another thing to think about
when you're when you're starting
to put this stuff together is the frequency
of the kind of thing that you're doing.
And I'm really only talking about two different frequencies.
Because in my opinion, these are the only two that work.
Which is either once a week or once a day.
Once a day you really have to be committed.
That you're going to, you're going to actually produce that.
We've tried once a day and it's painful.
So you can do it but you have to really think about
how to build an efficient pipeline to make it work.
Once a week is probably the best if
you're getting started in podcasting.
There's a lot of people that put out pod
casts kind of whenever they finish them.
Or they put a couple out, then they
wait for a couple months and they,
and the big thing is you're not really
going to build a listener ship that way.
You're not, or a viewer ship that way.
You're not going to build a following unless you're regular.
And I say that as we, we've gone up and down
of being regular, you know back and forth.
We, we do it mostly once a week for most of our shows.
But that is the, that's a much better approach
And so you, the key when I talk about that is that you
want to think about how you're going to design a set of shows.
For instance, our new shows now, from learning
from all the other podcasts we've done is
that we generally have four shows done in the can,
figured out before we turn the, turn the spicket on.
You know we're, we make sure that we have a buffer kind
of built in before we get going to make sure that we get,
that we have a little bit of room to start to work in.
Then we try to keep that buffer going.
MacBreak, that many of you have seen, has
actually only been recorded about four times.
So to give you kind of a sense of how much we buffer.
( Laughter )
We, we can typically shoot 12 to 18 MacBreaks in a day.
And so, so those things get all you know buffered together.
And that's one of the things that we do, we do a lot of.
And one of the things to make this work is efficiency.
Now if you start to think, and I'll
get back to efficiency in a second.
When you start to think about how you build your
podcast, you really have obviously two podcasts.
You have audio.
And audio, one of the things you have to think
about is what are people doing when they're,
when they're watching or listening to your show.
With audio, they're working.
They might be stuck in a traffic
jam, if they're in San Francisco.
And also they might be just walking,
exercising, so on so forth.
What this equates to is a much longer
format, a long length, 30 to 90 minutes.
We have gone back and forth with This Week in Media going
short, long, figuring out and for a while we thought
that maybe we should really be
doing it for 30 or 40 minutes.
Like we should do a really short piece.
People told us well it takes me about 35
minutes to get to work, that's all I want.
And so for about two or three months,
I would ask every person who said
that they listened to the show how long they wanted it.
You know do they care about the long ones or the short ones.
And almost every, everyone to a person said they didn't
care how long it was or that they liked the long one.
And the reason is that they're
just playing it in the background.
They don't really care.
It's just filling up time.
You know it's just, it's just like NPR, it's
just something that goes in the background.
So you can do a, a much longer format with
audio and people will be pretty understanding.
With video, they're sitting in front of their computer.
They're watching their AppleTV or they're watching it on
their iPod, their phone, their iPhone, all of those things.
And what this equates to and this is the difference, is the
audio you're really having it, it's a secondary activity.
It's not really happening in the foreground.
Video is a primary activity which means that you
really are looking at three to eight minutes.
This is really the sweet spot when
you're actually doing video work.
A lot of people think about doing podcasts that are 15
minutes long and 20, you know 15, 20, 25, 30 minutes long.
But we have to sit there and watch it.
You know and there's two problems with that.
One is that A, you're sucking up, now you're taking
away my actual work time to get this stuff done.
The second thing is that you're working
typically on a lower budget than Lost.
You know or ER and, and it's gotta be
really good if it's going to last 20 minutes.
You know that's, there's, there's not many
things you can do on a low budget that,
that is worth actually putting that together.
So, so anyway you, you really especially
you want to keep it you know simple.
There's a quote that has been referred to, back to both Mark
Twain and Abraham Lincoln, depending on who you talk to.
Which is that it's better to keep one's mouth shut
and look foolish than to open it and remove all doubt.
So this applies directly to our video of making
sure that we move through things quickly,
try to keep it short and not hang too long.
Another thing that you have to pay attention
to is the scale of what you're shooting now.
So what you see in the lower corner is standard definition.
That's bigger than a lot of what you would
normally put on your iPod, the little 320 by 240,
although now you can put much larger formats on there.
But that's standard definition.
720p is kind of, that's really the, the largest
size you're going to put on an AppleTV right now
and 1080p is pretty much full broadcast, well
full, I mean that's theatrical release size.
But one of the things that's really is that you
can shoot all of these fairly inexpensively now.
There's not, I would, if you feel like you're producing
content that is worth keeping around and hopefully
if you're building a podcast, that's what you're doing.
You know if you don't think its worth keeping
around then you should find another podcast.
But if you really feel like its worth having, one of
the things that I would highly consider is getting rid
of the DVD camera and going ahead with an HDV camera.
There are great cameras out here.
We've been doing a lot of testing
with an HD20, the Canon HD20.
It is 1000 dollars.
And, and the images are pristine.
You know for 1000 dollars.
It's totally enough to do the kind of work
that you'd want to do for your podcast.
And you're going to get that, it actually shoots 1080p.
And so you're able to get that full resolution
or you can bring it back down to 720p.
Another thing that you want to you know think
about is how much you need to do with a set.
And I'm going to talk a little bit about this a little
bit later, but here you have a, a shot we did,
this was for Mac World and here's the actually piece.
And one of the things that you want to look
at is, is how to piece this stuff together.
This isn't, this has gotten a lot easier.
And I'll kind of walk through some of the sets,
some of the pieces of that a little bit later.
But one of the things to look at is whether you can get away
with doing you know doing green screen rather than trying
to build a set for everything that you need.
A lot of times you can make something look kind of nice.
When we did this, there was some guys
that Mac World I guess that I was told
that they, they were like, where is that office?
You know, it's, that's a really cool office.
We should sit there.
And that's all done you know really, really quickly.
That's like four hours of work
to put that background together.
One of the things that we have to think about while
we're doing this is the price per finished minute.
We are not broadcast.
You know right now we're a niche market, we're a new market.
We're all these other things.
And we have to think about how do we keep
our production costs as low as possible.
To give you an idea, we tend to try to keep our production
costs below about 200 dollar per finished minute.
You know so a lot of the stuff requires
us to think in kind of mass production.
So for instance, a typical show, we will
shoot a minimum of six shows in a day.
And typically we'll shoot you know as many as 12
and as I said up to 18 episodes in a single day,
because that lowers our physical production costs.
To give you a sense of that, a small cable
network might be 2000 dollars a finished minute.
So 10 times more than the kind
of budget that we're working on.
And something like Discovery Channel might be
something closer to 5000 dollars per finished minute.
To give you an idea of the kind
of expenses that we're, the scale.
To put one more, I didn't put one more in here
because it, it'll screw up the whole graph.
Which is that ER you know is 200000
dollars a finished minute.
So, so you're really looking at, I mean
that's what, that, that's the difference.
But what's exciting is that we can
actually work inside of that, that number.
We can actually make podcasts that are, that
are interesting especially when we get back,
when we come back to this nonfictional content.
When we're making something that is about
things that people are excited about,
especially if they, if they're underserved.
If they're not, if people who are really into knitting
aren't really, don't really have a lot of broadcast shows.
I mean they can't tune in on Tuesday night
on CBS to watch a knitting, knitting video,
they're very likely to be pretty understanding about your
technical quality as you started to put that stuff together.
So there's a, there's a real opportunity and
people are going to be much more understanding,
especially as you get more and
more into that, that niche market.
Here is.
>> "Nitrogen is normally a gas."
>> Can we turn that down just a little bit?
There we go.
( Laughter )
So this is an example of one of our
little podcasts and this is all done
in motion, all the graphics in the background.
>> "Which are building blocks for our proteins."
>> Now, the interesting thing about that is that
it's not, this isn't that difficult to put together.
I say and Kinsey's is going to be like well, alright.
So but the main thing is that what
we're, what we're skipping is a lot
of camera motion, a lot of moving stuff around.
Now we do have other cameras, this is a three camera shoot.
But by adding those graphics and finding ways to use up
that space rather than trying to put a big set in there,
we actually use that as a, as an opportunity to make
sure that we could you know add a lot of detail and,
and do something that you wouldn't
necessarily see in a broadcast show.
But added a lot to the show.
Another show here, this is.
>> My favorite time is a time.
>> This is.
>> So the goal here is not to.
>> One of our favorite shows.
Mostly because I get to have lots of drinks.
So. We actually, we've now designated,
we've started to designate stunt drinkers.
( Laughter )
Because, because here's the deal.
What happens is that Alberta is an artiste, you know.
And we had, we had one conversation with her
about, we had one conversation about her,
you know we could just use water on the set.
And, yeah, she almost quit.
So.
( Laughter )
So she, so, so it was, it was a bad scene.
There was a lot of swearing and upset
and so, so we backed off on that.
And then she made the drinks and we said so we
can pour them into the, into the, into the sink.
And then, you know she almost quit.
And so.
( Laughter )
And so, and so anyway.
So she, she really required us to drink the drinks.
And, and one of the things that we learned is that if you
let the cameraman drink the drinks, you gotta reshoot.
So.
( Laughter )
So, so now we invite guests to come
and, and sit on the, on the couch.
And they're only job is to get up and drink.
So.
( Laughter )
It's not paid, but oddly enough
there's a long line, you know, it's.
( Laughter )
So anyway, so.
To give you an idea what that looks like,
it's not that, not that complex a set up.
And this is, you're pretty much seeing the entire set
up here where we, we actually found my partner at,
at the Pixel Corps or one of my partners, that's his kitchen.
So we, you know there was a lot of like figuring out
what kitchen we could actually use to make this work.
So we, we found his kitchen.
We used pretty much one light.
We have a couple other lights that
we'll throw around, but a big light.
And if you're doing podcasting, if
you're doing any kind of broadcast work,
there's nothing better than a big, diffused light.
I mean you can, you can use those little sharp
lights and you can have all the stuff, but a really,
really big samara is really the way to, the way to go.
So that always makes everybody look good.
We have a kind of a big camera at
the office that you can see here,
but you don't need to use a camera
like that to make it work.
One of the things that we do a lot
of is capturing direct to drive.
If you're doing production, it is a
real pain in the neck to deal with tape.
How many people here know how much
of a that is a pain in the neck?
Alright, so yeah, yeah.
We hate tape.
So we're actually hoping by July, the end of July
to be pretty much a completely tapeless process.
And that's really become a, a real obsession of
ours because we still have some tape in the system
and it's the worst part of the entire process.
What we use here, what you're seeing
here is a, is a program called ScopeBox.
And we use both ScopeBox and Final Cut to capture directly
into, into the, ingests straight into the computer.
With most of these small cameras, you
can ingest straight into a laptop.
So you don't really need a big
computer to, to make all of that work.
And it's really worth it.
You're going to really accelerate the, the amount of time.
And once again, when we're trying
to keep things at a budget,
a lot of you are probably your podcast is a labor of love.
But when you want to turn it into a
business, you're going to really need to think
about how do I cut every couple minutes here,
couple minutes there, couple hours here,
couple hours there to make it something
that's actually financially viable.
Here's another.
>> This has to be shinier still.
So I'm going to go in there and with my dodge and
burn tool, I'm going to add a few more features.
Let's add a little dark tone right there and
maybe a little one right in there like that.
Just a little tone in there.
And with my dodge tool, let's go in there
and lighten up a little chunk right there.
And maybe a little highlight right there
and maybe one right down the middle.
See?
>> So this is a show we do for a company, for Revision3
and it's called Pixel Perfect and it's with Burt Monroy
and he, who actually taught me Photoshop.
You know, 15 years ago.
And anyway, so this is another style of capture
and this is what it looks like in our office.
That's actually what our office looks like.
And so we, we you know kind of use whatever's
available but it's simply a, a one green screen.
We happen to use green screen from a
company called Composite Components.
And we, we swear by them.
They're lycra, they're washable, and, and they,
you just spray them with water once they're up
and they get all the wrinkles go
out and, makes it really work.
So but you, you can see it's not a very high tech set up.
One of the things that by the way when you look at all
these lights and you start thinking about how expensive
that is, we barely own, actually own any lights.
So when we do shoots, and this is one the reasons we
shoot so many in a single day is that we rent everything.
So when we, when we're doing a shoot, we simply just rent
an airy kit, rent kenos, rent you know all of those pieces.
It's really, one of the things that may stop you
from getting these nice light kits and or you know
that you think you're going to have to spend
3000 dollars or 4000 dollars to buy it.
Where you can go down to Gassers here or
whatever you're at, there's always going to be,
any major city there's a rental house somewhere.
And a good light kit, everything except for
the kenos, all those little, all those lights
and everything else is going to cost you about 75 bucks a
day,u you know to 100 dollars a day to rent that stuff.
And so, that is a way to just kind of, if you really want to
have something like a lot nicer, you can throw those lights
up and you don't have to go through that big expense.
Now the key is when is we don't worry about them too
much because we're shooting you know 10 episodes.
So we just think about it well it's
not, we don't think of it as 75 dollars,
we think of it as 7 dollars and 50
cent per epPisode that we need to.
We do a lot of work, a lot of our pod
casts are kind of worked out on Excel.
( Laugh) So.
Here's the, kind of the other angle, so you
can kind of see where the lights are set up.
The, here are the keno flows.
Those are pretty much the best
way to light your green screen.
And you can see our very high tech way of getting
that overhead shot from, from Burt up there with the,
we've got a little HV, or HVX200 just sitting
on our little tripod, kind of perched down.
I'm sure we could think of something
that looked better, but it works.
So, this is MacBreak which a lot of you guys have seen.
( Music )
So I won't, we won't go too far into this.
One of the things that does make a difference
here is that we did spend some time on an open.
And you know I was a little bit of
a curmudgeon for a while about that.
Saying ah, we don't need to do all of that stuff.
But people, people really expect it.
( Laughter )
And they, and they get kind of frustrated if you, if
you don't give them their open, their little music.
The one thing that we have noticed is that for a three
to eight minute piece, it needs to move pretty quickly.
So you know while you'd think on a broadcast
TV show, you'd think about 22 seconds.
And we're slowly moving most of our
new shows to something more like 10.
You know it's a three to eight minute show, don't feel
up 50, you know 15 or 20 percent of it with the open.
You know, so that's kind of one of the things
that we've, we've really gone into here.
This is kind of what, what it generally
looks like when we're shooting MacBreak.
This is, we shoot this at a, at a the San
Francisco School for Digital Film Making.
This is right, right past the ballpark here.
And so you can, you can kind of see, now once again, like
I said, we use kind of big cameras because we have them.
But you, you can use anything you want
as far as this stuff goes through here.
But it's a pretty simple set up from our point of view.
We're capturing in this case directly into Final Cut Pro.
The great thing about Final Cut is that
you don't have think about it at all.
You know whether we're using a 950, which is what
we're using here which shoots 4, 4, 4 uncompressed HD
or we're putting a DV camera in, we can
just, all of that stuff just goes in as long
as you have a drive fast enough to, to pull it in.
I want to talk a little bit about green screen,
because I know that I'm showing all this green screen.
So I thought I would just show very, very quickly.
I don't want to go too deep into this.
If you have questions about it, at the end,
I'm going to try to leave enough time for you
to ask the questions that you might have.
But one of the things that's really important is really
looking at when you're lighting your, your green screen,
thinking about the process in a, in a very mathematical way.
And I know we're at the developer's conferences, so
it's easier for me to talk to you about this and,
you know I talked to artists about
it, and everyone starts to glaze over.
You know, so but we really do, tend to
do our keying by you know by the numbers.
So I don't have to look at a lot.
I don't need little filters to look at the green screen.
all I'm looking at here, this is an RGB parade that
after I've captured some, I capture some sample footage,
I'll put it into the RGB and what I'm looking for is the,
is the distance between my red channel,
my green channel and my blue channel.
Obviously if it's a green screen, I
want my green to be the brightest.
This one is actually is actually a little under lit.
What I really want is that green
to be up at about 90, 90 percent.
If we start to clip it, we're going to start to pull the
edges, make all the edges really hard because the things
that are light green, you know the
green should be white and the things
that are light gray are going to be the, my nice fine edges.
So if I, it's not just a matter of
exposing the green as hard as you can.
You really need to look at the numbers and know
whether you're going to clip your signal or not.
You want the red and the blue as
far from the green as possible.
This is about minimum, minimumally what you'd want.
But the more, the further you can
get that apart, the better.
So that's, you know how we kind of approach that process.
I'll show the, kind of the process of keying.
We're using a plugin.
We, we developed a plugin with a
company called Lacquer called Conduit.
And what it is is basically like a mini
shake that sits inside of Final Cut Pro.
And once again, this is easier
for me to talk to developers about
or people who are here at this conference than artists.
So what you have here is basically
a flow graph of being able to kind
of work your way through, you know a set of instructions.
So here you have the input, here
you have a color difference.
This is basically subtracting the, a average of
the red and blue channels from the green channel.
And what that does is that the green, the red and
blue channel were dark, so they're closer to zero.
And the green should be white.
And in the area where your subject is, all of those
colors are the same or they're close to each other.
They're the same in value.
So when you subtract them and when you subtract
the red and the blue, what you get is a black
in the center, because they were very close.
And you get just a, kind of a little bit
darker gray because they were close to zero,
so they're not subtracting very much from the green.
The other thing that we do is what we call
and unspill process, which is using that matt
to actually remove all of the green from the scene.
And we really eliminated all of the green.
So including the spill and everything else.
From there, there's a color correction.
And this color correction takes into account the
blue background that we're going to put him over.
So we're kind of hedging the background
a little bit towards that.
Because we want to make sure his edges will fit into
the, to the background that we're working with.
And then here you can see the final composite.
Where we just simply stack all of those pieces together.
So that's kind of the, the approach that most
of our, most of our podcasts go through.
The ones that are working in front of green screen.
There's a lot more detail there, but I thought
I would spare you for the last session.
So, so here you can see the piece.
Now another thing that's important
here is, stop this here for a second.
So one of the things to look at here is you'll
notice that the, from a broadcast point of view,
from a broadcast point of view, this,
these lower thirds are very big.
So if I was actually putting this on an HD monitor and I was
actually playing this, this is a really, really big lower third.
One of the things that we're working on is while
we deliver almost everything that we do at 1080p,
we have to remember that there are going to be a
lot of people watching them on iPods, on iPhones,
on smaller apparatuses so we
have to really design for kind of both.
And so we try to split it.
We try not to make it too big, so it looks like a cartoon
on a HD monitor, but we also have to know that those are,
that we have to make sure it's still readable
when it's sitting in front of an iPod.
So those are the kinds of things that you have to think
about as you're starting to put this stuff together.
By the way, I'm not going to show too much of it, I'm not doing
a lot of demos today, but, but one of the things to notice,
this little animation that comes in here, and I'm going to talk
about this when I talk about the tools just a little bit.
It all, it looks nice and complex
and you know it's, I mean it's simple,
but it's a nice little element to add these little 3D fly-ins.
This is all done with a program
called Pro Animator by Zack Wartz.
And it is the secret weapon to logo animations and
everything else for, for broadcast, for podcasts, for,
what it does is it basically, this, this
Macworld Best of Show that you see here?
They sent me, they sent me an EPS, so an illustrator
file of that, of that file, just the outlines.
And I had that model in about 25 minutes.
%
You know it was a nice 3D model, it was totally
animated, I had the animation done about an hour later.
I hope no one from Macworld is sitting in here because,
they won't be that impressed with it anymore.
So they, they thought it was great.
So anyway.
So the point is that all of this stuff
was put together very, very quickly.
It just does it really, really quick for you.
And it is, if you want to do any kind of impressive graphics,
or I mean just like little flourishes
that look bigger than you are.
It's a must have piece of software.
The rest of this is all done in, In Motion.
So let me go to the next one here.
So to, to jump into some of the tools that we
use to kind of give you an overview of some
of the tools that were actually putting together.
Of course we're going to capture in, in Final Cut.
We're also doing capture in ScopeBox.
The reason we use ScopeBox a lot is because
we can, we can get that, that RGB parade live.
We have a lot more control and a lot more feedback of live
content while it's coming in than what we get in Final Cut.
And so sometimes we don't actually capture in ScopeBox, we
still capture in Final Cut, but we, we measure everything
and we make sure that all of our lighting is set up
and everything else while we're working in ScopeBox.
And then we use for the screen grab, that we're
putting together, we use a program called Snapz Pro.
I think a lot of you probably know Snapz Pro.
The other one that we use occasionally is a program
called iShowU, which we like to say iShowU.
So, we, we find it, it sounds better that way.
So, so anyway.
iShowU is from Shiny White Box?
Is that right?
And the advantage of iShowU when you're doing screen
grabs and I think a lot of you if you're building training
for software or your doing any of this stuff, the
advantages of iShowU is when you're done, it's done.
Like there's a QuickTime.
You're not waiting for Snaps to do
whatever it does to put stuff together.
And, and the problem with it is that it tends
to be a little bit more processor intensive.
So when we're using something like if we're
doing captures of Shake or a 3D program,
it'll tend to be, it'll tend to bog down a little bit.
And Snaps tends to be a lot better.
So it's a little better mixture of the two of those.
For production, we're doing all of our
editing and I'll talk about this in a second,
all of our editing in Final Cut of course.
We do all of our sound, all of the stuff
from, for our sound shows in, in Sound Track.
And we're very, I'm very happy with that.
So and then we do, I think we do most of our,
I think we, do we do all of our opens in?
Not all of them?
We do a mixture of the opens in
Sound Track and Garage Band, so.
The reason we use Garage Band is because we can
use keyboards and we can't do that in Sound Track.
So, so we can make you know kind of do our
little midi thing and put stuff together.
But, but most of our opens and most of our little sound
pieces are all done between Sound Track and Garage Band.
The graphics as I said, Zack Wartz
Invigorator, if you don't have it, you need.
You gotta, I mean you just, you
want to make anything look like it,
like you meant to do it, you need that piece of software.
All of our 3D animation for broadcast work beyond Zack's
Works, so if its more than just a simple little animation,
we need to build a digital set, we need to build, we need to
do larger animations, the open for MacBreak for instance,
is all done in a program called Cinema 4D.
This by the way is not, we're not rebels in this, the
majority of broadcast designers doing broadcast work,
for networks and cable networks and so
on, so forth are also using Cinema 4D.
We use a lot of different 3D apps.
We use Modo and XSI and a lot of other things that
to, for a lot of the different things that we do.
But when it comes to broadcast graphics, this is by
far the best application that we have to do that.
And then of course, most of our, our 2D
animation and now some of our 3D animation as far
as basic 3D pieces is done in, In Motion
which we're, we're also very happy with.
To give you an idea of how the pipeline works, and
this is very simplified version of the pipeline,
of what we do, just to give you kind of a process.
For most of our stuff, we capture the two formats
that we tend to capture in is HDV which is the devil.
And, and uncompressed.
So from, from there we take the HDV and we move it to
Apple ProRes 422, we've been moving it to DVC Pro HD.
But we've just begun to start turning over
to Apple ProRes 422 which is much better.
And this gives us a very quick format
that will edit easily and so on, so forth.
Now we will, I will say when we're doing green
screen, when we're coming from uncompressed,
we'll actually do the keying first before we move into
422 because we actually have a higher quality format.
Then we convert this all down to PhotoJPEG.
Now you may wonder why we do that, why we
convert our nice ProRes 422 to PhotoJPEG.
And the reason is that we send this out to editors.
So our editors are spread over I think three continents.
( Laugh )
So we have editors all, you know and going on four.
So that what happens is we need
to make it as small as possible.
The resolution I think is 384 by 216.
And if I remember correctly.
And I think that's one fifth of 1920 by 1080.
And it's PhotoJPEG.
The editors job is not to figure out whether the,
whether the shots were done well or not well.
Their job is just to cut the thing together.
And so they don't need it to be any higher.
And that may sound like a crazy thing, but the
thing to remember is that Star Wars which is,
when I was working on Episode One,
they were editing, I wasn't editing.
I didn't do any editing in Star Wars.
But they were editing on what was called
AVR6 from Anavid which is very low quality.
And the entire movie was done that way because the editor
didn't have to figure out whether it was a good shot
or bad, you know whether it was clean or not.
That was someone else's job.
Their job was to say once it's in here,
I'm going to put it together and, and cut it.
And so that's why we send it out that way.
This really, the difference in size goes from the 422
might be you know two gigabytes or three gigabytes.
By the time it gets to PhotoJPEG it
might 300 megs or something like that.
and that becomes a reasonable file that we can put up on
a FTP server, have the editors pull down and do the edit.
What happens there is they send, they only
send the Final Cut Pro document back to us.
So we don't have to you know we don't, Final Cut is not,
is just doing a reference out to the actual content.
So we just simply reconnect it with the
high quality footage and then hit render.
So I mean there's a little bit more than that.
we have some little pieces and graphics and stuff.
But most of the work is done by the
editors on a very low res version.
We reconnect it to the high res.
And that makes it very light.
I mean the Final Cut Pro document is one
meg, two megabytes, something like that.
it's pretty, pretty small.
And then from there we output to H.264.
So that's kind of the, the very, very basic
pipeline of how we put stuff together here.
So of our output considerations, computer.
We have no true maximum resolution.
So we do produce MacBreak at 1080p.
And, and we put it out there.
I think we have a feed that, the 1080p feed.
The truth of the matter is that when you start considering
legacy, when you start considering legacy computers,
you're real effective maximum really is 960 by 540.
If you start making it bigger than
that, you get emails from guys
that are can't play it on their, you know their G3 laptop.
So, so anyway.
So you get lots.
And when you have enough viewers,
when you get to 50 or 60000 viewers,
those emails turn into its not like two people.
You know you get like 40 emails a
day of I can't, it keeps on skipping.
So, so you're 960 by 540 is what you have there.
Interactive Max and why I say that is we do add a lot
of interactivity which I'll talk about in a second.
When you start making things clickable for us, the maximum
is about 800 by 450 before things start to jump around.
AppleTV of course, the maximum
resolution is 1280 by 720 or 720p.
And that is only 24 frames a second.
So if you, if you go to 30 frames a second,
then what you need is to go down to 960 by 540.
There have been, I was one of the people
who actually was complaining about the fact
that the AppleTV didn't go to 1920
by 1080 and  why isn't it 1080p?
And it has been proven to me beyond any reasonable
doubt that unless your monitor is larger than 60 inches,
and you're closer than 10 feet to the screen,
which isn't really healthy by the way.
You're not going to see the difference between 720 and 1080.
So you really, 1080 is you really, really requires a
very, very large projection to make any difference.
So this is really a perfect resolution.
Because if you started doing 1080 just because
you could it makes the file that much bigger.
You know and so this works out really well.
With the iPod your max res, I think the max resolution I
mean the effective resolution on your iPod is about 320
by 240, but you can stuff 720 I think, 720 by 480 in there.
The big thing with, with it is the max bit rate which
is 768 kilobits per second if you're doing H.264.
And there's no interactivity of course in entire
the AppleTV or the iPhone or iPod of iPhone.
Well I shouldn't that for iPhone
because there's there is isn't there?
Or we think there will be.
So if we learn how to use the web.
So, so anyway.
The other thing to understand as you're starting to put your
stuff together, and I'm going to talk about this a little bit
because people really treat compression like a mystery.
And for us it's not that complicated.
I mean I feel like we just kind of, we've
kind of just found our way to pretty small files.
I mean people always talk, a lot of people ask
us how MacBreak gets to be really, really small.
And, and so I want to talk a little bit about it
and hopefully it demystifies it for a couple of you.
So the first thing is there's really
two types of compression that's going
on anytime you're doing any, any work like this.
And that's the first one is spatial compression.
And what you're really looking at here with spatial
compression is what pixels look alike in a single frame.
So as I'm looking at this frame, the blues are going to be
start, it's going to start grouping those blues together.
It's going to group the grays together.
It's going to group the purples in Leo's shirt together.
It's going to group all of that stuff together and it'll
find as many pixels as it can to group those together.
And if it can't, the higher you turn the compression,
the more it forces those pixels to be the same.
It says, well they're close enough, I'm going to make this
block all, all the same number of, the same kind of pixel.
That's where you get blocks by the way is
because it, when you start turning it up,
it forces those pixels into, in to corrals.
So this is one, one piece of the compression technology.
The second is temporal compression.
And the temporal compression is really
looking at what changes between frames.
So if I look at this frame and then I go down
a couple more frames, between these key frames,
and that's what you're looking at,
when you're looking in, in QuickTime,
what you're looking at there is it,
you'll see this little key frame number.
A 12 or 24 or whatever.
What it's saying is I'm going to lay an entire
frame down no matter what, what's happening.
And, and then its gotta have, these are kind of like
if you're thinking about climbing up a mountain,
it's where you're driving your spikes into the ground.
In, into the wall.
You know, so you're going to get up to a certain
height and you're going to go I'm going to drive one in
and then I'm going to walk up a little bit further.
So what it's doing is adding these key frames in between.
The further out you put those key frames, the
more efficient your compression is going to become.
So one of the things that we tend to do is turn our key
frames up to 100 and sometimes up to 200 key frames between,
I mean you know frames between key frames.
This makes a huge difference often times with the quality
of your, you know or the size of your, of your file.
Other things that make a difference
are things like how you shoot.
So and how, how you shoot your podcast makes
a huge difference in how you compress it.
Now a lot of people don't connect these two things.
One of the things you'll notice about a lot of
our podcasts is the cameras don't move a lot.
The reason they don't move a lot is
because it, every time you move the camera,
it has to add what you call a natural key frame.
It has to go, well too much has
changed in this, in the scene.
And so I'm going to add another key frame
to make sure that things are based on it.
If you move the camera too slowly,
and you have big wide distances
between key frames, that's when you start to see a tear.
You know because it'll tear because
it doesn't realize that enough,
you know it doesn't realize that
things have been moving too much.
And so you start to see artifacts.
So that's what's actually happening there.
So we don't, what we try to avoid is a lot of slow pans.
And we also try to avoid the camera moving when we,
when we, we'd rather edit, cut from one frame, you know.
Cut from one camera to another than move the camera around.
The other thing that is will really kill
your temporal compression is handheld shots.
So its, it looks really cool, but you
gotta be really careful about that
because the handheld shot defeats
all of the temporal compression.
And so that's going to be something that's
going to make your file literally five
or six times bigger, to have your, those kind of pieces.
So we all want to be like MTV, but
unless we're really happy with our,
you know how we're going to feed this content
out, you gotta be kind of careful of that.
So another thing by the way, one of the reasons we use
green screen is because the green screen, there's grain.
You know I'm sure any time you've looked,
you've looked closely at your video footage
and you'll see little grains changing.
That can defeat your temporal compression as well.
By using green screen with a still behind it,
what happens is those pixels become identical.
And it makes the, because there's no grain in the area that
the green screen was in, what you end up with is a very,
very efficient temporal compression because those
pixels that its looking at from frame to frame
to frame are remaining totally identical, you know perfectly
identical which makes it much, much more efficient.
So the, the next thing that I'm going to show here is
what we would consider kind of the next frontier.
And we don't need any sound in the back there.
The, this is a test that we actually did
about a year, about a year ago I guess.
Little over a year ago.
And that when I had longer hair.
And, and more hair actually.
So. So the one of the things we're going to notice
down here is this is kind of interactive frame.
Now what we're getting ready to do of course is start
to take some of the stuff that we learned this week
and find ways to do this inside
of Safari and all that stuff.
But this is all built actually into the QuickTime.
I strongly believe that what we're looking at is this year
is going to be a year of let's get our video up on the web.
Next year is going to be a year of let's make it clickable.
You know so we're going to want to be able to click on
just about everything within the next 24 to 36 months.
And so we've been doing a lot of research on that.
What you're seeing down here is a
little extra movie that's playing along.
Now what's going on here is that if what we did
is that of course there's some stuff that some,
some folks that have supported us
and so on, so forth that's in there.
But we're really linking to anything
that we're talking about.
We're not trying to make it an advertisement.
It's not a banner that every single,
you know that all paid for.
This is a really, really important point when you start
to look at this secondary piece because if, there's an ad.
( Laugh )
So that's an ad but it's mixed in, 60 to 80 percent
of everything that you see has nothing to do,
it's not paid for, it's just what we're talking about.
And that is, that keeps that area live.
It keeps people interested and actually looking at it.
And clicking on it.
While I can't really show this
inside of a keynote presentation,
if I click on any of those it takes me straight
to the website, you know where those were,
you know to the either the manufacturers
website or a place that people can buy it.
We, with one of the microphones we, we were noticing that
every person that we talked to had said oh I got this mike
or I bought that mike and so we called one
of the mike manufacturers and asked them.
You know we've link to your, you know to your site
and literally it was just because we went into Google
and just you know found someone
who sold the mike and link to it.
You know we were just experimenting, so we didn't like
try to get any deal or work anything out ahead of time.
And the guy was just like, oh man,
he goes we got in on Monday morning,
we usually get 20 or 30 orders  a day, we had 400 orders.
You know it was like, he was like
we had no idea what hit us.
He goes, and we got through the end of Monday and
we got to Tuesday morning and there were 400 orders.
You know you know and and I said, and he said,
he said he had 400 orders every, every day.
And I asked well why was it 400 orders and he
goes well it turned out that there was a problem
in the web page that it would max out at 400.
He goes, we just never had 400 orders before.
You know and so, so it was, so, so the thing is that
when you're and the reason that's important is that
and that's one by the way I really
wished I'd asked for 10 percent.
So, so anyway.
The, the thing that's important is that when you're
creating content and this is what's different.
A lot of people think of interactive content like
I'm going to be watching Oceans 11 and clicking
on Brad Pitt's shirt and you know all that stuff.
The problem with that is if I'm, if I'm worried
about what Brad Pitt is wearing during a
movie, you know can't be a very good movie.
You know if I'm paying attention.
Now I told that to a woman in LA and she
said well you're obviously not a woman.
So.
( Laughter )
So, so anyway.
So the, the thing is that narrative content I don't
think is really a great place for interactivity.
I don't people, people just want to,
they don't want branchy movies.
I don't want six different versions of
Oceans 11 or Oceans 13 now I guess, whatever.
I just want to watch the movie and I want to go home.
You know I have enough trouble just keeping track of
Pirates 3, you know let alone actually having it branch
or be clicking on things and so on, so forth.
But when we get into actually doing how tos,
things that about what people are passionate about,
they are much more likely to be
interested in clicking on something.
They're much more likely to be
interested in what you're using.
Now this is microphones, but it could be, I could be talking
about cars and I might want to know about the wrench or the,
or what, you know what type of
carburetor is being used or what,
you know all of those things I might want more information.
As we get closer to what people are interested
in, this interactivity becomes much more useful.
Also the viewers are much more likely to
not be bothered by stopping the program
so they can find out more about what they're doing.
And what you're looking at it an interactive experience
where they're watching video, but they're stopping,
they're looking at the web, they're doing more
research, they're, they're buying products.
So on, so forth.
And this is going to be, as this starts to
really move forward, you know we strongly feel
that this is going to be a huge industry.
As it, as it really starts to move
forwards as long as the tools are there,
which it all looks like its going down that direction.
Here you can see integrated in to QuickTime, it's
contextual so the information is about it, its hyperlinked
and the results as I said were pretty impressive.
This is the second version of what we're doing.
And so what you see here is this is a
lower third just you'd normally have except
that you can click right on the lower third.
So there's not, I can't click on it here, but
if I, if I back up here just for a second.
I think. Or not.
( Period of silence )
Then I won't try that.
so the, so what, but the main thing there is that if I
click on that lower third, what I'm able to actually do is
that way, what that allowed us to do is have an
integrated pipeline where we just made the same product.
All that is is a hotspot.
So we're, now we're not building an extra movie, we're not
building anything extra, we just have a lower third firing
in and we're able to just kind of click if it's interactive.
So if you're watching on the iPod, if you're watching on
the AppleTV right now, you wouldn't be able to click on it.
But if you're watching on your computer, you could
click on it and get more information, so on, so forth.
And so, so that's another, that's kind of a little
piece that we've, we've kind of gone done the path.
Now the next thing that we're, you know the next place
that we're going is being able to click on everything.
So we want to be able to click on Leo's shirt,
we want to be able to click on the monitor.
We want to click on you know and distinguish between
the monitor, the, the keyboard, so on, so forth.
We think that's going to be something that
is going to be very, very interesting.
And the reason is that it allows us to very subtly
add a whole lot of extra content, extra information,
extra areas to sell into, so on, so forth
without bothering the person who just wants
to passively turn it on and watch it on their TV.
So they don't have to you know it's just there.
Once you know it's there, like we tell
you at the very beginning, by the way,
if you're interesting in anything you can click on it.
That's all we have to do.
You know and while what will happen, we believe is
that people will start getting into
the habit of oh I'll click on that.
You know and they won't do it immediately, but they'll
start getting used to it and before you know it, they're.
You know and we think that that might be strange,
but I also thought that instant
messaging was strange you know a year ago.
So, and now you know my bill comes in and
I get, I get called in the CFO's office.
And so, so that, that was strange and interruptive
and everything else and now it's just commonplace.